docs: Add reference for reset and boot sequence, document factory reset for esp32 & rp2. (#15956)
micropython/micropython: docs/reference/reset_boot.rst

Reset and Boot Sequence
=======================

A device running MicroPython follows a particular boot sequence to start up and
initialise itself after a reset.

.. _hard_reset:

Hard reset
----------

> Booting from hard reset happens when the device is powered on, if Python code
> executes :func:`machine.reset()`, or if a physical Reset button is pressed on
> the board (where applicable).

Reviewer: ```suggestion

Booting from hard reset is what happens when a board is first powered up, a cold boot, this is a complete reset of the MCU. 

The same hard reset boot sequence can be triggered by a number of other sources such as:
* Python code executing :func:`machine.reset()`
* User presses a physical Reset button on the board (where applicable)
* MCU watchdog reset
* Waking from deep sleep (on most ports)
* MCU brown out detector (on some ports)
```

    sharing the same USB device.
  * A serial UART REPL will restore its default hardware configuration (baud
    rate, etc).

- CPU clock speed is usually not changed by a soft reset.
- :doc:`RTC </library/machine.RTC>` setting of the current time is retained
  after soft reset.

.. _boot_sequence:

Boot Sequence
-------------

When MicroPython boots following either a hard or soft reset, it follows this
boot sequence in order:

_boot.py
^^^^^^^^

This is an internal script :doc:`frozen into the MicroPython firmware
<manifest>`. It is provided by MicroPython on many ports to do essential
initialisation.

For example, on most ports ``_boot.py`` will detect the first boot of a new
device and format the :doc:`internal flash filesystem <filesystem>` ready for
use.

Unless you're creating a custom MicroPython build or adding a new port then you
probably don't need to worry about ``_boot.py``. It's best not to change the
contents unless you really know what you're doing.

.. _boot_py:

boot.py
^^^^^^^

A file named ``boot.py`` can be copied to the board's internal :ref:`filesystem
<filesystem>` using :doc:`mpremote <mpremote>` or :doc:`pyboard.py

> <pyboard.py>`.

Reviewer: Can they be both frozen on all ports now? I know it only worked on a few ports previously

> <pyboard.py>`.

Author: > Also might be worth mentioning that boot.py (and main.py below) can be frozen into the firmware.

The note about freezing is in the list of `main.py` tips (but it mentions you can freeze both files.)

> Can they be both frozen on all ports now? I know it only worked on a few ports previously

Oh..? I've used the phrase "on most ports" and "and on some ports" in other places, should I add it here?

(This is frustratingly non-specific for users, but it's still useful to document where something may be port-dependent than not to document it at all.)

> <pyboard.py>`.

Reviewer 2: It looks like all ports now use `pyexec_file_if_exists()` to run `boot.py` and `main.py`, and if freezing is enabled on that port then that function will first search frozen code.

So, all ports now support freezing of these two.

> <pyboard.py>`.

Author: Thanks for checking this, @dpgeorge

If ``boot.py`` is found then it is executed. You can add code in ``boot.py`` to
perform custom one-off initialisation (for example, to configure the board's
hardware).

.. warning:: boot.py should always exit and not run indefinitely.

   Depending on the port, some hardware initialisation is delayed until after
   ``boot.py`` exits. This includes initialising USB on the stm32 port and all
   ports which support :ref:`machine.USBDevice <machine.USBDevice>`. On these
   ports, output printed from ``boot.py`` may not be visible on the built-in USB
   serial port until after ``boot.py`` finishes running.

   The purpose of this late initialisation is so that it's possible to
   pre-configure particular hardware in ``boot.py``, and then have it start with

>    the correct configuration.

Reviewer: It might be also worth mentioning it's common to configure network / wifi in boot.py though as that means it will be available on all boots for use with repl / mpremote when there's no main.py used.

.. note:: It is sometimes simpler to not have a ``boot.py`` file and place any
          initialisation code at the top of ``main.py`` instead.

.. _main_py:

main.py
^^^^^^^

Similar to ``boot.py``, a file named ``main.py`` can be copied to the board's
internal :ref:`filesystem <filesystem>`. If found then it is executed next in the
startup process.

``main.py`` is for any Python code that you want to run each time your device

> starts.

Reviewer 2: It might be worth adding somewhere in this file that `main.py` execution is skipped when you soft-reset in raw-repl mode (see docs/reference/repl.rst for more details about raw-repl).

(I'm surprised we don't already document that fact somewhere... at least I couldn't find it.)
